---
type: other
name: Character Arcs
color: null
aliases: []
tags: []
alwaysIncludeInContext: false
doNotTrack: false
noAutoInclude: false
fields: {}
---
Play-it-safe Jak is trapped in both a dead-end job with the Ministry of Interspecies Affairs and an arranged loveless marriage with Yrn princess Kara. Amid the saber-rattling between leaders of the Yrn and the Huma Proper, Jak finds himself romantically entangled with his exotic new co-worker Diane—a human. His mistress shares a secret with Jak—she’s a member of a Third Faction that pursues a more peaceful relationship between the Huma Proper and the indigenous Yrn: complete assimilation. She convinces Jak to plant an explosive device at the remaining atmospheric processor to force the two governments to consider the Third Faction’s solution. When the explosion plunges the city into darkness and kills his father-in-law the Monarch, Jak’s wife assumes Regency and declares open war on the Huma Proper. Fearing his complicity will be exposed, Jak pleads with Diane for asylum; she grants it under the condition that Jak kills his wife, freeing the two of them to openly stand as a mixed-species couple and leaders of a new ruling Third Faction. Jak leads a squad of Thirds through the bowels of the city to tunnels where he gains access to the Yrn Nexus that protects his people and Regent. The Thirds are killed in the process by the Yrn Guard, leaving Jak alone. Eventually, Jak confronts Kara alone and admits his infidelity and treason before committing to the act and attacks her. Huma Proper forces led by Diane storm the Nexus and prevent Jak from assassinating Kara.

Kara is a prisoner of circumstance but refuses to be a victim. Her Monarch father insists on adhering to traditions and customs despite the plight of the Yrn people, their spirit effectively conquered by humankind. The Huma Proper regime is both kind and cruel—a mix of patronizing contempt and outright disdain. Kara endures a loveless marriage with Jak, someone who represents all that is wrong with her people: subjugation, concession and assimilation. When Kara accidentally discovers her husband’s infidelity with the human Diane and her father commands her to accept it, she opts instead to confront Diane. Things don’t go as expected. Kara is attracted to Diane and the two find they have a complimentary objectives. She shares with Diane her aim to free the Yrn of their limiting customs and to accept progress with the humans. Diane reveals she is an agent of Huma Proper and is only using Jak to topple the Yrn Monarchy. The new plan to install Kara as Regent is forged and set into motion. The women concoct the Third Faction in secret from their governments and use their most trusted to conscript Jak into sabotaging the last atmospheric processor. In the chaos, Kara murders her father. The whole event is blamed on Huma Proper terrorists and Kara is made Regent of the Yrn. She declares open war and retreats to the Nexus to orchestrate the battle. In an unexpected turn, Kara learns that Jak has emerged as a leader in his own right and the Third Faction is legitimized with its own agency in the fight. Diane warns Kara of Jaks impending assault on the Nexus and that she no longer has influence of him. Kara arranges for Jak’s squad of Thirds to be dispatched en route but fails to prevent Jak from gaining entry. Face-to-face, Kara and Jak exchange verbal spars and as Jak moves to assassinate Kara, Diane and Huma Proper forces breech the Nexus.

Diane has been in the duplicity game all her life, a life serving the Huma Proper and its aims—whether she agreed with them or not. Posing as an associate in the Ministry of Interspecies Affairs, her current assignment is to observe and compromise Jak, the ineffectual husband of the Yrn princess. If the Monarch’s hold could be weakened, it would speed policy change where the two peoples could amalgamate their energies, improving their lot amid the ecological decline of the small planet. Jak’s obvious attraction to her is flattering and proves useful to her mission as Diane encourages an affair. The Yrn princess, Kara confronts Diane and it became clear that her Huma Proper assignment would not bear fruit. Fascinated and enamored by the Kara, Diane discloses her assignment and they realize they have the same desire for their world. The women concoct the Third Faction in secret from their governments and use their most trusted to conscript Jak into sabotaging the last atmospheric processor. With Kara declaring war as Regent after the Monarch’s death, Jak pleads with Diane for asylum with the Third Faction. Diane paints a picture of a Third Faction ruled world with the two of them at the head. Emergency sirens blare and Diane is recalled to Huma Proper and Jak takes up the mantle as leader of the Third Faction. At Huma Proper HQ, Diane finds the government in shambles as Yrn and Third Faction forces ransack the capital region. When the Third Faction turns on the Yrn fighters, Diane warns Kara that she no longer has influence over Jak and that the Third Faction was real and very dangerous. With the Huma Proper regime all but vanquished, Diane gathers a few remaining soldiers and they make for the Nexus to stop Jak from assassinating Kara.